I"‡<p>There is no better way to start off this blog than celebrating StartupLab‚Äôs 5th annual Winter Pitch Party. It‚Äôs hands down one of the best events in the scene, and is always something to look forward to.</p>

<p>The format of the event is fairly standard, albeit surprisingly casual, with 20-or-so fire pitches from nervous entrepeneurs in all sorts of fields, followed by alcohol infused ‚Äúmingeling‚Äù, or networking, or whatver it‚Äôs called. This year they also replaced the all so standard tower of pizza with a pretty solid taco station. I mean, if it wasn‚Äôt for the general lack of daylight I would have totally thought I was in California, dropping cold VC cash on some hot startups.</p>

<p>But all jokes aside. StartupLab is one of the oldest players in the Oslo Startup-scene, and it‚Äôs contribution to the ecosystem is unprecendented. They have managed to keep their integrity throughout the years, and, unlike MESH, a once startup-hub turned into a corporate co-working space, StartupLab truly attracts some of the most interesting companies in the country. This can partially be explained by the fact that StartupLab is more of an incubator in the crowded co-working space, where their goal is to help the companies grow out of their setup, instead of locking them in forever, but they are also managing their own Founders Fund and have an excellent axcellerator program. This means that they more or less can offer a full package, so that the founders can focus on changing the world.</p>

<p>It‚Äôs also a bit of a throwback for me to visit StartupLab, as I used to have a desk there for a year or so half a decade ago. Since then I‚Äôve been all over the Startup-scene, and have tried out many of the Startup-hubs around Oslo. What many of these have in common is that they are struggelig to create a real Startup-culture, where founders can bounce ideas and vent frustration with one another. As far as I‚Äôm concerned StartupLab is the only place in Oslo that succeeded with this.</p>

:ET